Add Term Entry for Fitts' Law (#4226)
Codecademy/docs: content/uiux/concepts/fitts-law/fitts-law.md

---
Title: 'Fitts Law'
Description: 'Add term entry for Fitts Law to UI and UX Design glossary'
Subjects:
  - 'Developer Tools'
  - 'Mobile Development'
  - 'Web Design'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Design'
  - 'UI'
  - 'UX'
CatalogContent:
  - 'intro-to-ui-ux'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

**Fitts' Law**, initially developed by Paul Fitts, is a term related to UI and UX Design describing how movement time to a target (link, button, etc.), with a pointer (mouse, finger, etc.), is a function of the distance to the target as well as the size of the target. Where poor functionality was once attributed solely to human error, Fitts first recognized this was also due to poor design.

> Fitts determined larger targets with minimal spacing allow for greater usability in design. Though caution should be used when limiting spacing, as clutter can cause poor functionality issues as well. When designing a UI, it is important to recognize the user's workflow on a given page and optimally place targets according to the predicted placement of the pointer. The larger a target can be, the better for usability and limiting user error. Clustering of commonly used items and menus should be taken into consideration for optimal UX.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fitts determined that larger targets with minimal spacing allow for better usability in design. However, caution should be exercised when limiting spacing, as clutter can lead to poor functionality. When designing a UI, it is crucial to recognize the user's workflow on a given page and strategically place targets based on the predicted pointer placement. The larger a target, the better it is for usability and also reduces user errors. Clustering commonly used items and menus should be considered for optimal UX.
```

## Example

The gif below depicts a basic demonstration of Fitts' Law. The varying size and placement of targets illustrate the differing levels of user accuracy in acquiring each target as well as the speed of acquiring each target. As targets are enlarged and distance reduced, accuracy/speed icrease.

> ![Fitts' Law demonstration](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/fitts-law.gif)

Author: Definitely! I noticed the clutter on the larger targets, and thought the example speed and accuracy might be associated with good design practice by mistake. WIll add this in.

## Resources

> [Nielsen Norman Group](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/fitts-law/)
> 
> [Interactive Visualization of Fitts' Law](http://simonwallner.at/ext/fitts/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Nielsen Norman Group](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/fitts-law/)
- [Interactive Visualization of Fitts' Law](http://simonwallner.at/ext/fitts/)
```

---
Title: 'Fitts Law'

> Description: 'Add term entry for Fitts Law to UI and UX Design glossary'

Author: @avdhoottt Sure thing, done!

> Description: 'Fitts law: movement time to a target is a function of the distance to and size of the target'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description: '
Fitts' law states that the time taken to move to a target is determined by both the distance to the target and the size of the target.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Developer Tools'
  - 'Mobile Development'

>   - 'Web Design'
>   - 'Web Development'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Fitts determined that larger targets with minimal spacing allow for better usability in design. However, caution should be exercised when limiting spacing, as clutter can lead to poor functionality. When designing a UI, it is crucial to recognize the user's workflow on a given page and strategically place targets based on the predicted pointer placement. The larger a target, the better it is for usability and also reduces user errors. Clustering commonly used items and menus should be considered for optimal UX.

## Example

The gif below depicts a basic demonstration of Fitts' Law. The varying size and placement of targets illustrate the differing levels of user accuracy in acquiring each target as well as the speed of acquiring each target.

![Fitts' Law demonstration](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/fitts-law.gif)

> Notice how smaller targets with large spacing decreased the accuracy and speed of acquiring each target, while larger targets with minimal spacing increased accuracy and speed. Despite the highest accuracy and speed shown on the largest and overlapping target set, this would not be considered good design practice, as the targets are cluttered and could lead to poor usability. The goal is to find the optimal size and spacing so that targets are presented clearly, and are easily distinguishable from one another.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice how smaller targets with large spacing decreased the accuracy and speed of acquiring each target, while larger targets with minimal spacing increased accuracy and speed. Despite the largest and overlapping target set showing the highest accuracy and speed, this would not be considered good design practice, as the targets are cluttered and could lead to poor usability. The goal is to find the optimal size and spacing so that targets are easily distinguishable from one another.
```

---
Title: 'Fitts Law'

> Description: '
> Fitts' law states that the time taken to move to a target is determined by both the distance to the target and the size of the target.'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description: 'Fitts' law states that the time taken to move to a target is determined by both the distance to the target and the size of the target.'
```
